         TOPICS SOUGHT FOR THE KERNEL AND MAINTAINER SUMMITS       

  [Kernel] Sep 3, 2018 19:07 UTC (Mon) (corbet)

  o News link: https://lwn.net/Articles/764055
  o Source link: 


    The  annual  Maintainer  and  Kernel  Summits  will  be held in
    Vancouver,  BC  on  November  12 to 15, in conjunction with the
    Linux  Plumbers  Conference.  The  program committee is looking
    for  topics  for  both  summits;  read on for details on how to
    submit  ideas and, perhaps, get an invitation to the Maintainer
    Summit.
    
    From :
    
    "Theodore Y. Ts'o" <tytso-AT-mit.edu>
    
    To :
    
    linux-kernel-AT-vger.kernel.org, linux-fsdevel-AT-vger.kernel.-
    org,      linux-mm-AT-kvack.org,     netdev-AT-vger.kernel.org,
    linux-block-AT-vger.kernel.org
    
    Subject :
    
    Maintainer / Kernel Summit 2018 planning kick-off
    
    Date :
    
    Thu, 30 Aug 2018 17:35:17 -0400
    
    Message-ID :
    
    <20180830213517.GA19110@thunk.org>
    
    Archive-link :
    
    [1]Article
    
    [  Feel  free  to  forward  this  to other Linux kernel mailing
    lists as
    
    appropriate -- Ted ]
    
    This  year,  the  Maintainer  and  Kernel  Summit  will  be  in
    Vancouver,
    
    B.C.,  November  12th  -- 15th. The Maintainer's summit will be
    held on
    
    Monday,  November  12th,  in  Vancouver, immediately before the
    Linux
    
    Plumber's Conference (LPC) November 13th -- 15th.
    
    For  the  past  few  years, before 2017, we've scheduled mostly
    management
    
    and  development  process  issues  on  the  first  day. We then
    opened up
    
    the  second  day  of  the Kernel Summit to all attendees of the
    conference
    
    with  which the Kernel Summit has been colocated, and called it
    the
    
    "Open  Technical  Day".  This is something that just made sense
    in order
    
    to assure that all of the necessary people needed to discuss a
    
    particular technical issue could be in the room.
    
    Starting  last  year  in Prague, we took the next logical step,
    and split
    
    the Kernel Summit in two. The "Maintainer's Summit" is an
    
    invite-only,  half-day  event,  where the primary focus will be
    process
    
    issues  of  Linux  Kernel Development. It will be limited to 30
    invitees
    
    and  a  handful  of  sponsored attendees. This makes it smaller
    than the
    
    first  few  kernel  summits  (which  were  limited to around 50
    attendees).
    
    The "Kernel Summit" is now organized as a track which is run in
    
    parallel   with   the  other  tracks  at  the  Linux  Plumber's
    Conference, and
    
    is open to all registered attendees of Plumbers. Much as how we
    
    organized  the  Kernel  Summit  "open technical day" in 2016 in
    Santa Fe,
    
    the  Kernel Summit schedule will be synchronized with the other
    tracks
    
    at  the  Plumber's  Conference,  and  it  will  be  open to all
    registered
    
    Plumber's attendees.
    
    Linus  has  suggested  the  following ten people as the core of
    the people
    
    he  would  like  invited  to the Maintainer's Summit, which was
    calculated
    
    from statistics from his git tree.
    
    David Miller
    
    Dave Airlie
    
    Greg KH
    
    Arnd Bergmann
    
    Ingo Molnar
    
    Mauro Carvalho Chehab
    
    Takashi Iwai
    
    Thomas Gleixner
    
    Andrew Morton
    
    Olof Johansson
    
    As  we  did  last  year, there will be a mini-program committee
    that will
    
    be pick enough names to bring the total number of 30 for the
    
    Maintainer's  Summit.  That  program  committee will consist of
    Arnd
    
    Bergmann,  Thomas  Gleixner,  Greg  KH,  Paul McKenney, and Ted
    Ts'o.
    
    We  will use the rest of names on the list generated by Linus's
    script
    
    as  a  starting  point  of  people to be considered. People who
    suggest
    
    topics  that  should  be  discussed  on the Maintainer's summit
    will also
    
    be  added  to  the  list.  To  make  topic  suggestions for the
    Maintainer's
    
    Summit,  please  send e-mail to the ksummit-discuss list with a
    subject
    
    prefix of [MAINTAINERS SUMMIT].
    
    The  other job of the program committee will be to organize the
    program
    
    for  the  Kernel  Summit.  The  goal of the Kernel Summit track
    will be to
    
    provide  a  forum  to  discuss  specific  technical issues that
    would be
    
    easier  to  resolve  in  person  than  over e-mail. The program
    committee
    
    will  also  consider  "information  sharing" topics if they are
    clearly of
    
    interest  to  the  wider  development community (i.e., advanced
    training
    
    in topics that would be useful to kernel developers).
    
    To  suggest  a  topic  for  the  Kernel Summit, please tag your
    e-mail with
    
    [TECH  TOPIC]. As before, please use a separate e-mail for each
    topic,
    
    and send the topic suggestions to:
    
    ksummit-discuss@lists.linuxfoundation.org
    
    People  who  submit topic suggestions before September 21st and
    which
    
    are  accepted,  will  be  given  a  free admission to the Linux
    Plumbers
    
    Conference.
    
    We  will  reserving  roughly  half  the Kernel Summit slots for
    last-minute
    
    discussions   that   will  be  scheduled  during  the  week  of
    Plumber's, in an
    
    "unconference  style".  This  was extremely popular in Santa Fe
    and in
    
    Prague,  since  it  allowed  ideas  that  came  up  in  hallway
    discussions,
    
    and   in  Plumber's  Miniconference,  to  be  given  scheduled,
    dedicated
    
    times for that discussion.
    
    If  you  were  not  subscribed on to the kernel-discuss mailing
    list from
    
    last  year  (or  if  you  had removed yourself after the kernel
    summit),
    
    you can subscribe to the discuss list using mailman:
    
    https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/mailman/listinfo/ksummi...
    
    
    
    [1] https://lwn.net/ml/linux-kernel/20180830213517.GA19110@thu-
    nk.org



