      VALVE EXPLAINS HOW IT DECIDES WHO'S A 'STRAIGHT UP TROLL'    
             PUBLISHING VIDEO GAMES ON STEAM (VICE.COM)            

  Thursday September 06, 2018 @11:30PM (BeauHD)
  from the behind-the-scenes dept.

  o News link: https://games.slashdot.org/story/18/09/06/2146237/valve-explains-how-it-decides-whos-a-straight-up-troll-publishing-video-games-on-steam
  o Source link: https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/9kmej7/valve-it-really-does-seem-bad-games-are-made-by-bad-people


    An   anonymous   reader   quotes  a  report  from  Motherboard:
    Wednesday,  Valve,  the  company  that operates the huge online
    video  game store Steam, shared more details about how it plans
    to  control  and  moderate  the ever-increasing number of games
    published  on  its  platform.  In the post published Wednesday,
    Valve  shared  more  details  about  how  it determines what it
    considers  "outright trolling." "It is vague and we'll tell you
    why,"  Valve  wrote.  "You're  a denizen of the internet so you
    know  that  trolls come in all forms. On Steam, some are simply
    trying  to rile people up with something we call 'a game shaped
    object'  (ie: a crudely made piece of software that technically
    and  just barely passes our bar as a functioning video game but
    isn't  what  99.9% of folks would say is "good.") Valve goes on
    to  explain  that  some  trolls are trying to scam folks out of
    their  Steam  inventory items (digital items that can be traded
    for  real  money),  while others are trying to generate a small
    amount  of  money  through a variety of schemes that have to do
    with  how  developers  use  keys  to  unlock Steam games, while
    others  are  trying  to  "incite  and sow discord." "Trolls are
    figuring  out new ways to be loathsome as we write this," Valve
    said.  "But  the  thing these folks have in common is that they
    aren't  actually  interested  in good faith efforts to make and
    sell  games to you or anyone. When a developer's motives aren't
    that,  they're  probably  a troll." One interesting observation
    Valve   shares  in  the  blog  post  is  that  it  rarely  bans
    individual  games  from  Steam,  and more often bans developers
    and/or  publishers  entirely.  [...] Valve said that its review
    process  for  determining  that something may be a "troll game"
    is  a  "deep  assessment"  that  involves investigating who the
    developer  is, what they've done in the past, their behavior on
    Steam   as   a   developer,   as   a  customer,  their  banking
    information, developers they associate with, and more.


  ** Just charge a $5K "listing fee" (Score:5, Interesting)
     (by west ( 39918 ))

     
     98% of the total garbage disappears (as well as a few percent of
     the good). Of course "not terribly good games" will still
     appear, but it gets rid of the absolute garbage.
     Or if people are appalled at paying to appear on Steam, allow
     spending $10K for a Steam "check-mark of marketing", and allow
     users to filter to show only check-marked games.

     ** 

        ** Re: (Score:1)
           (by Anonymous Coward)

           
           "Choices"???
           Thirty-five (35) games were released on Steam today alone .
           Go fuck yourself.



     ** Steam wants the garbage (Score:3)
        (by rsilvergun ( 571051 ))

        
        because there's no accounting for taste, and if you took away
        garbage there'd be no Goat Simulator. As the saying goes, one
        man's trash is another's treasure.
        
        Plus, a lot of good devs get their start making trash.

        ** Re: (Score:3)
           (by AC-x ( 735297 ))

           
           > because there's no accounting for taste, and if you took
           > away garbage there'd be no Goat Simulator. As the saying
           > goes, one man's trash is another's treasure.
           I'm sorry, but anyone with a functioning brain would see
           that infinitely more effort and polish has been put in to
           games like Goat Simulator than any of those garbage "asset
           flips" that litter the Steam store.
           Yes the difference between a good and bad game is
           subjective, but broken zero effort trash is much easier to
           agree on...



     ** Re: (Score:2)
        (by mentil ( 1748130 ))

        
        Will never happen. There are way too many games like PUBG
        that would've never become Steam hits if they had such a
        policy. It only needs to be enough to make the trolls miss
        it/lose out with their scams; $100 would likely be enough.


     ** Re: (Score:2)
        (by Escogido ( 884359 ))

        
        Either would shut a lot of starting indie games developers
        out of the system, thus preventing said developers and the
        gaming industry in general from making future hits.
        Basically, all new games are either essentially
        reskins/clones of existing games, or trying new mechanics
        and/or interactions, and sometimes (rarely) stories and
        characters. Given the typical indie level production values
        are garbage, in general, only the ones that try to innovate
        actually do have some value for the industry. However, first


  ** Best New Feature (Score:2)
     (by Kunedog ( 1033226 ))

     
     > A second set of changes was focused on improving how you can
     > ignore things you're not interested in. In the past you've been
     > able to ignore individual games or product types (like VR, or
     > Early Access) you didn't want to see again. But now we've added
     > ways for you to also easily ignore individual developers,
     > publishers, and curators.
     Imagine how much easier browsing Netflix would be if you could
     filter out whole franchises and showrunners. Of course, that
     might make it obvious how little on Netflix actually interests
     you.

     ** Re: (Score:2, Funny)
        (by Anonymous Coward)

        
        Then they could charge a fee to shows that don't want to be
        filtered by you

        ** Re: (Score:2)
           (by Archfeld ( 6757 ))

           
           Sounds like Amazon, and the Kindle Library. No matter what
           you search, every 7th listing is a 'Sponsored' listing,
           and even if you specify a particular author or absolute
           title, you always get 10 or 12 additional 'bonus' items
           listed.



  ** Early Access Garbage and abandonment (Score:2)
     (by shendar ( 674986 ))

     
     How about if a developer starts a EA Project and walks away
     (takes forever with no progress) they are banned from further
     EA? How about if they are banned from the store entirely?

     ** Re: (Score:3)
        (by AC-x ( 735297 ))

        
        I'm sure the type of developer who does that would simply
        abandon their old label and create a new developer account to
        carry on.


     ** Re: (Score:2)
        (by mentil ( 1748130 ))

        
        "I'm sick of development, so here's version '1.0'."
        Also define 'forever' in a timescale that doesn't apply to
        Notch, Rockstar or Valve.

        ** Re: (Score:2)
           (by Calydor ( 739835 ))

           
           Wait. I see what you did there.
           You mentioned three developers.
           CONFIRMED: Half-Life 3 is being produced by Notch and
           Rockstar!



  ** Great Yet Another Meaning For Troll (Score:1)
     (by Crashmarik ( 635988 ))

     
     Already May well be the most overloaded operator in the English
     language. As it seems to mean anything anyone anywhere takes
     objection to, or otherwise makes them feel bad.

     ** Re: Great Yet Another Meaning For Troll (Score:2)
        (by Nidi62 ( 1525137 ))

        
        The troll in me wants to say that "nazi" probably has "troll"
        beat  ;)


  ** 

     ** Re: (Score:2)
        (by tepples ( 727027 ))

        
        Furthermore, unlike console and mobile platforms, Steam has
        very little switching cost. An end user can always just up
        and switch to Itch or Origin or GOG or Humble or wherever
        else.


  ** Steam's progression (Score:3)
     (by Luckyo ( 1726890 ))

     
     So Steam started as "shove it down their throats" Counter Strike
     1.6 launcher. Evolved into highly curated game store over about
     a decade.
     Then decided to suddenly drop all curation and allow anything
     and everything on the platform. Got flooded with garbage. Added
     weird "meta gaming" shit like trading cards. Got games that
     literally existed just to allow people to get cards. Allowed
     some trading and other meta gaming of the system. Even got
     pressured by some SJW types to drop politically controversial
     games like Hatred and even had their recent porn games brouhaha.
     And now, they're doing this. I guess there's just too much
     pressure from all directions, and they really just decided that
     no, we're not bending to various pressure groups, and instead
     just making sure that asset flips and such are not on the store.
     If true, good on them.

  ** Early Access (Score:2)
     (by tylersoze ( 789256 ))

     
     Eh, all I really want from Valve is a filter that blocks all
     "Early Access" games from ever appearing, as I'm browsing for
     games on their web site.


