     STUDY FINDS PROBIOTICS 'NOT AS BENEFICIAL FOR GUT HEALTH AS   
                PREVIOUSLY THOUGHT' (THEGUARDIAN.COM)              

  Thursday September 06, 2018 @11:30PM (BeauHD)
  from the contrary-to-popular-belief dept.

  o Reference: 0102641010
  o News link: https://science.slashdot.org/story/18/09/06/2153223/study-finds-probiotics-not-as-beneficial-for-gut-health-as-previously-thought
  o Source link: https://www.theguardian.com/science/2018/sep/06/probiotics-not-as-beneficial-for-gut-health-as-previously-thought


    An  anonymous reader quotes a report from The Guardian: The gut
    microbiome  is  the sum total of all the micro-organisms living
    in  a  person's  gut, and has been shown to play a huge role in
    human  health.  New  research  has  found probiotics -- usually
    taken  as  supplements  or  in foods such as yoghurt, kimchi or
    kefir  --  can hinder a patient's gut microbiome from returning
    to  normal  after  a  course of antibiotics, and that different
    people  respond  to  probiotics in dramatically different ways.
    In  the  first  of  two  papers  published in the journal Cell,
    researchers  performed  endoscopies and colonoscopies to sample
    and  study  the  gut microbiomes of people who took antibiotics
    before  and  after  probiotic  consumption.  Another group were
    given  samples  of  their  own gut microbiomes collected before
    consuming  antibiotics.  The  researchers found the microbiomes
    of  those  who  had  taken  the probiotics had suffered a "very
    severe  disturbance."  "Once  the  probiotics had colonized the
    gut,  they  completely  inhibited  the return of the indigenous
    microbiome  which  was  disrupted during antibiotic treatment,"
    said  Eran Elinav, an immunologist at the Weizmann Institute of
    Science   in  Israel  and  lead  author  on  the  studies.  The
    scientists  also  compared  the  gut  microbiomes  of  the  gut
    intestinal  tract  of  25 volunteers with that of their stools.
    They  found  that stool bacteria only partially correlated with
    the  microbiomes  functioning inside their bodies. "So the fact
    that  we all almost exclusively rely on stool in our microbiome
    research  may  not be a reliable way of studying gut microbiome
    health,"  said  Elinav.  In  the  second paper, the researchers
    examined  the  colonization  and  impact  of  probiotics  on 15
    people  by  sampling  within their gastrointestinal tract. They
    divided  the  individuals  into  two  groups:  one were given a
    preparation   made   of   11  strains  of  very  commonly  used
    probiotics  and  the  other  were given a placebo. Of those who
    were   given   probiotics,   he   said,  "We  could  group  the
    individuals  into  two  distinct groups: one which resisted the
    colonisation   of   the   probiotics,  and  one  in  which  the
    probiotics  colonized  the  gut and modified the composition of
    the gut microbiome and the genes of the host individual."


  ** 

     ** Re: (Score:2)
        (by jblues ( 1703158 ))

        
        Bacteria are are naturally present in raw fruit and
        vegetables and naturally fermented foods, including naturally
        fermented bread. Most cold climate cultures relied on
        fermented vegetables to get them through the winter. Salt
        fermentation of raw vegetables allows the lactobacillus
        bacterias to proliferate. Almost all of the sugars are
        consumed, however most of the rest of nutritional profile is
        intact, including the vitamin C. In some cases the
        nutritional profile is enhanced. This is why viking sailors
        di


  ** Bitter sweet (Score:3, Informative)
     (by Anonymous Coward)

     
     Been saying this for years. I get some people have IBS but the
     reliance on things like yogurt is crazy.
     Fun little tip for a stomach ache - saliva. Let it build in your
     mouth (without water) and swallow in one gulp. Not only does it
     give your mouth a natural way to break down any bateria / sugar,
     but helps to calm your gut. Mouthwash is the nuclear option.
     So much of how your body functions comes down to diet. It's
     interesting they do not go into what foods were consumed.

     ** 

        ** Re: (Score:3)
           (by omnichad ( 1198475 ))

           
           The "S" stands for syndrome, which identifies it as a
           collection of symptoms and not a disease. It's a diagnosis
           only in that there are good ways to treat the symptoms
           even when you don't understand the root cause fully.



  ** I guess it's back to (Score:2)
     (by bobstreo ( 1320787 ))

     
     shit transplants for the health crazed.  /s
     Seriously, is anything really good or really bad for you in
     moderation?

  ** Don't take probiotic pills (Score:5, Insightful)
     (by PopeRatzo ( 965947 ))

     
     Don't waste your money on probiotic capsules. If you want to try
     to increase the amount or variety of bacteria in your guts,
     there are tons of delicious foods that are chock full of
     probiotics. Olives, pickles, fermented meats like the Italian
     delicacy soprasetta (which might be the tastiest thing ever
     invented by humans). Kimchi is also good, but it will make you
     smell bad, so if you're single, you might want to go easy on the
     kimchi.
     Also, if you use vinegar on salads, try getting some of that
     good cider vinegar that still has the "mother" in it. Shake the
     bottle and use like any other vinegar. And of course, yogurt,
     kefir, that kind of stuff is delicious too.
     I'm not crazy about kombucha. It's a big fad now and there are
     places here in California that have kombucha on tap, but it's
     not really to my taste. Some people swear by it. I notice that
     now when you buy it in the store, they ask for an ID since
     there's a small amount of alcohol in it.
     Also, alcohol is not really good for your gut bacteria, but
     there are more important things in life than gut bacteria, you
     know? Just eat a lot of different kinds of food and you'll end
     up with good gut bacteria without even trying.

     ** Re: Don't take probiotic pills (Score:3)
        (by ljw1004 ( 764174 ))

        
        Why would you advise people on natural sources of probiotics
        - in response to an article which said that they're either
        ineffectual or actually bad?

        ** Re: (Score:2)
           (by omnichad ( 1198475 ))

           
           They likely contain a lot more biodiversity vs. a
           monoculture or handful of strains in probiotic
           supplements. And they would still probably be ineffectual
           most of the time, except after antibiotic use. This study
           doesn't cover any of that. Of course if you're trying to
           feed the microbiome you already have, eating unfermented
           vegetables makes more sense as they still have the complex
           sugars like oligosaccharides, fructans and so on that
           would feed it. That depends on whether you are
           repopulating after an


        ** Re: (Score:2)
           (by PopeRatzo ( 965947 ))

           
           > Why would you advise people on natural sources of
           > probiotics - in response to an article which said that
           > they're either ineffectual or actually bad?
           Because on the high probability that this new "study"
           actually gets overturned by future research, I want people
           to know they can eat delicious healthy food.
           Remember when fats were bad? And coffee? And wine was good
           for you? And eggs were bad for you? And low-fat diets were
           good for losing weight?
           And chocolate was bad for you? Do you need me to go on?
           When



  ** Makes sense to me. (Score:5, Informative)
     (by Vegan Cyclist ( 1650427 ))

     
     Most probiotics are a pretty small range of bacteria, and I
     don't know if I've ever seen anywhere that confirms these are
     actually the ones we want on a large scale...especially when
     some supplements have pretty large doses of these.
     From all the reading I've done it seems the best direction will
     be to focus on prebiotics, aka the foods that the microbiome
     thrives on, which is typically fibrous vegetable matter. Feed
     the good ones you've got (rather than trying to implant others),
     and you'll probably be better off.

  ** This study is done by morons (Score:2)
     (by gurps_npc ( 621217 ))

     
     What idiot thinks that if you give pills of a specific biome you
     will get something BESIDES that specific biome???? Look, if you
     take probiotic pills, you are replacing your normal biome WITH
     the biome of the pills.
     That was the presumed GOAL of taking the pills. The fact that
     your biome change is the thing you were trying to do, that's why
     you take the pills.
     If you have a blue car, and then paint it with red paint you are
     an idiot if you complain that the car is no longer red.
     There are lots of good reas

     ** Re: (Score:2)
        (by omnichad ( 1198475 ))

        
        > Look, if you take probiotic pills, you are replacing your
        > normal biome WITH the biome of the pills.
        The study concluded the opposite (in all cases except with
        antibiotic use). And the results are surprising. What it
        sounds like is happening is that all of the bacteria in the
        probiotic compete for food with the biofilm in your
        intestines. However, the probiotic has no way to supplant the
        biofilm - that's a protective layer that keeps out competing
        bacteria. It just starves the resident population a little
        bit as it passes on through. Either way, more or less none of
        it stays behind and it all leaves t



